# QuantumCitations.jl

QuantumCitations.jl is a fork of [DocumenterCitations.jl](https://github.com/ali-ramadhan/DocumenterCitations.jl) adapted to the conventions of (quantum) physics. It adds support for BibTeX citations in documentation pages generated by [Documenter.jl](https://github.com/JuliaDocs/Documenter.jl), specifically the documentation of the packages in the [JuliaQuantumControl organization](https://github.com/JuliaQuantumControl).

By default, `QuantumCitations.jl` uses the numeric citation style of the [APS journals](https://journals.aps.org), see the [REVTeX author's guide](https://www.ctan.org/tex-archive/macros/latex/contrib/revtex/auguide). Citations are shown in-line, as a number enclosed in square brackets, e.g. "Optimal control is a cornerstone in the development of quantum technologies [BrifNJP2010](@cite)."

QuantumCitations.jl by default differs from [DocumenterCitations.jl](https://github.com/ali-ramadhan/DocumenterCitations.jl) in the following ways:

* A numeric citation style is used, with citations number that are sequential throughout the entire documentation.
* Only cited references are included in the main bibliography by default.
* The `@bibligraphy` block can have additional options to customize which references are included, see [Syntax for the Bibliography Block](@ref).
* It is possible to generate secondary bibliographies, e.g. for a specific page.
* Alternatively to `[key](@cite)`, `[text](@cite key)` can be used to create citations with arbitrary text, see [Syntax for Citations](@ref).


## Installation instructions

You can install the latest version of QuantumCitations.jl using the built-in package manager (accessed by pressing `]` in the
Julia command prompt) to add the package and instantiate/build all dependencies

```julia
julia>]
pkg> add QuantumCitations
```

## Telling Documenter.jl about your bibliography

First, place a BibTeX [`refs.bib`](./refs.bib) file in the `docs/src` folder of your project.  Then, in `docs/make.jl`, instantiate the [`CitationBibliography`](@ref) plugin and pass it to `makedocs`:

```julia
using QuantumCitations

bib = CitationBibliography(joinpath(@__DIR__, "src", "refs.bib"))
makedocs(bib, ...)
```

Somewhere in your documentation, like a [References](@ref) page, include a markdown block

~~~markdown
```@bibliography
```
~~~

to insert the bibliography for all cited references in the project. See [Syntax for the Bibliography Block](@ref) for more options. You will also want to add custom [CSS Styling](@ref) to your documentation to improve the rendering of your bibliography.

## How to cite references in your documentation

You can put citations anywhere in your docs, both in the markdown pages and in the docstrings of any functions that are shown as part of the API documentation: The basic syntax is e.g. `[GoerzQ2022](@cite)`, for a BibTeX key [GoerzQ2022](@cite GoerzQ2022) in [`refs.bib`](./refs.bib),  which will be rendered as "[GoerzQ2022](@cite)".  See [Syntax for Citations](@ref) for more details.

Clicking on the citations takes you to the bibliography ("[References](@ref)").

## Home References

This page cites the following references:

```@bibliography
Pages = ["index.md"]
Canonical = false
```

Also see the [full bibliography](@ref References) for further references cited throughout this documentation.
